---
name: IS445 HW8 Wenjin Duan
tools: [Python, HTML, vega-lite]
image: assets/pngs/HW8.png
description: The purpose of this assignment is to get some more practice developing on the web, specifically exporting plots made in Python+altair+vegalite!
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---

#### The First Visualization:

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/chart1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

#####  Write-up:

The first visualization is a heatmap that showcases the count of building usages by different agencies. In essence, it is an overview of how frequently each agency uses a building for a specific purpose. The x-axis of the heatmap represents the "Usage Description" of the building, and the y-axis represents the "Agency Name". Each cell in the heatmap indicates the number of times a specific usage occurs for an agency, with the color intensity representing the count.

The darker the color, the higher the count. The choice to use a heatmap is effective in this scenario as it easily lets viewers discern patterns and understand which usages are common across different agencies. In terms of color scheme, a default sequential coloring is applied which starts from a lighter shade and gets darker as the count increases. This is intuitive because our eyes naturally associate darker shades with larger values.

There were no major data transformations needed, as the data was directly fetched from the URL. Compared to Homework #7, Altair has been leveraged for its simplicity in visualization creation and easy-to-understand grammar.

The width of the chart was added in the current homework for better fit and aesthetics. I transitioned from direct Vega-lite JSON specification in JavaScript to the Altair's Pythonic API for chart definition. This transition required some modifications. In the previous homework, I used `\\` for commenting, but in Python, I had to change it to `#`. Additionally, in the previous assignment, I had specified height as `"height":"400"`, but in Python, I needed to remove the double quote to have it as `"height": 400`.

The introduction of interactivity using a brush selector allows users to select specific portions of the heatmap and see those effects reflected in the subsequent bar plot.


#### The Second Visualization:

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/chart2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

##### Write-up:

The second visualization represents a bar chart displaying the average square footage associated with different agencies. The x-axis denotes the "Agency Name" while the y-axis showcases the mean "Square Footage" for each respective agency. In other words, this visualization gives insights into which agencies, on average, occupy larger or smaller building spaces. The bar chart is an apt choice for this kind of data as it provides a clear comparison across agencies.

For the design choices, a bar chart was utilized due to its straightforward interpretation. The x-axis was encoded with a nominal datatype representing the agency names, while the y-axis was transformed to showcase the mean of the square footage, thus providing an average metric for building spaces across different agencies. There's no specific color scheme applied, sticking to the default single color for bars.

There were no intricate data transformations needed, as the data was directly fetched from the URL. The major transformation was the aggregation method applied to the y-axis which calculates the mean square footage for each agency.

Comparing with Homework #7, the transition from Vega-lite JSON specification in JavaScript to Altair's Pythonic API for chart definition brought about some changes. The width and height of the chart was added in the current homework for better fit and aesthetics. In the JavaScript code, I used `\\` for commenting which needed to be changed to `#` in Python. Additionally, the dimension specifications like height were denoted with double quotes in the former, like `"height":"400"`. However, in Python, it was transitioned to direct attribute settings without quotes, like `height: 400`.

The chart is also enhanced with interactivity, being influenced by the brush interaction from the first heatmap. This means when a user selects certain areas of the heatmap, the bar chart will filter and only show data corresponding to those selected areas, allowing a more focused and detailed view of the relationship between agencies and building sizes.


####  Dashboard with Side-by-Side Interactivity

By binding the two visualizations with interactivity, users can explore patterns in building usages and immediately see the effect of their selections on the average square footage of buildings controlled by the selected agencies, making the dashboard not only informative but also engaging.

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/side_by_side_from_dict.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>


<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/vega/vega/blob/main/docs/data/cars.json" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/jnaiman/online_cv_public/blob/main/python_notebooks/test_generate_plots.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

